
.. SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0


Working with Gerrit
-------------------

Follow these instructions to collaborate on Hyperledger Explorer
through the Gerrit review system

Please be sure that you are subscribed to the `mailing
list <https://lists.hyperledger.org/mailman/listinfo/explorer>`__
and of course, you can reach out on
`chat <https://chat.hyperledger.org/channel/hyperledger-explorer>`__ if you need help.


Getting deeper into Gerrit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A comprehensive walk-through of Gerrit is beyond the scope of this
document. There are plenty of resources available on the Internet. A
good summary can be found
`here <https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Gerrit/Tutorial>`__.

Working with a local clone of the repository
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To work on something, whether a new feature or a bugfix:

1. Open the Gerrit `Projects
   page <https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/r/#/admin/projects>`__, or click on direct `link <https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/r/admin/repos/blockchain-explorer>`__

2. Select ``blockchain-explorer``.

3. Open a terminal window and clone the project locally using the
   ``Clone with git hook`` URL. Be sure that ``ssh`` is also selected,
   as this will make authentication much simpler:

.. code::

   git clone ssh://<LFID>@gerrit.hyperledger.org:29418/blockchain-explorer && scp -p -P 29418 <LFID>@gerrit.hyperledger.org:hooks/commit-msg blockchain-explorer/.git/hooks/

.. note:: <LFID> would need to be changed to your LFID.

4. Create a descriptively-named branch off of your cloned repository

::

    cd blockchain-explorer
    git checkout -b issue-nnnn

5. Commit your code.

    git commit -signoff

6. Any code changes that affect documentation should be accompanied by
   corresponding changes (or additions) to the documentation and tests.
   This will ensure that if the merged PR is reversed, all traces of the
   change will be reversed as well.

Submitting a Change
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Currently, Gerrit is the only method to submit a change for review.

.. note:: Please review the :doc:`guidelines <changes>` for making and
          submitting a change.

When a change is ready for submission, Gerrit requires that the change
be pushed to a special branch.

To push the current local development branch to the gerrit server, open
a terminal window at the root of your cloned repository:

::

    cd <your clone dir>
    git push ssh://<LFID>@gerrit.hyperledger.org:29418/blockchain-explorer HEAD:refs/for/<branch name>



.. note:: You need to change ``<LFID>`` to you Linux Foundation ID, and ``<branch name>`` to the branch name you are working on.

If the command executes correctly, the output should look similar to
this:

::

    Counting objects: 3, done.
    Writing objects: 100% (3/3), 306 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done.
    Total 3 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
    remote: Processing changes: new: 1, refs: 1, done
    remote:
    remote: New Changes:
    remote:   https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/r/6 Test commit
    remote:
    To ssh://LFID@gerrit.hyperledger.org:29418/blockchain-explorer
    * [new branch]      HEAD -> refs/for/master

The gerrit server generates a link where the change can be tracked.

Reviewing Using Gerrit
----------------------

-  **Add**: This button allows the change submitter to manually add
   names of people who should review a change; start typing a name and
   the system will auto-complete based on the list of people registered
   and with access to the system. They will be notified by email that
   you are requesting their input.

-  **Abandon**: This button is available to the submitter only; it
   allows a committer to abandon a change and remove it from the merge
   queue.

-  **Change-ID**: This ID is generated by Gerrit (or system). It becomes
   useful when the review process determines that your commit(s) have to
   be amended. You may submit a new version; and if the same Change-ID
   header (and value) are present, Gerrit will remember it and present
   it as another version of the same change.

-  **Status**: Currently, the example change is in review status, as
   indicated by “Needs Verified” in the upper-left corner. The list of
   Reviewers will all emit their opinion, voting +1 if they agree to the
   merge, -1 if they disagree. Gerrit users with a Maintainer role can
   agree to the merge or refuse it by voting +2 or -2 respectively.

Notifications are sent to the email address in your commit message's
Signed-off-by line. Visit your `Gerrit
dashboard <https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/r/#/dashboard/self>`__, to
check the progress of your requests.

The history tab in Gerrit will show you the in-line comments and the
author of the review.

Viewing Pending Changes
-----------------------

Find all pending changes by clicking on the ``All --> Changes`` link in
the upper-left corner, or `open this
link <https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/r/q/project:blockchain-explorer>`__.

If you collaborate in multiple projects, you may wish to limit searching
to the specific branch through the search bar in the upper-right side.

Add the filter *project:blockchain-explorer* to limit the visible changes to only
those from Hyperledger Explorer.

List all current changes you submitted, or list just those changes in
need of your input by clicking on ``My --> Changes`` or `open this
link <https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/r/#/dashboard/self>`__

.. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
